Add initial MultiGPU documentation (#646)
kokkos/kokkos-core-wiki: docs/source/API/core/MultiGPUSupport.rst

    int n_devices;
    hipGetDeviceCount(&n_devices);

    // Choose some 0 <= N < n_devices
    int N = ...;

    // Create stream on device N
    hipStream_t stream;
    hipSetDevice(N);
    hipStreamCreate(&stream);

    // Scope execution space to ensure stream
    // is destroyed *after* execution space
    {
      // Create execution space
      Kokkos::HIP exec_space(stream);

      // Use execution space
      /* ... */
    }

    // Destroying stream after use
    hipSetDevice(N);
    hipStreamDestroy(stream);

SYCL
^^^^

.. code-block:: cpp

    // Get list of devices available
    std::vector<sycl::device> gpu_devices =
      sycl::device::get_devices(sycl::info::device_type::gpu);

    // Choose some 0 <= N < gpu_devices.size()
    int N = ...;

    // Create a queue on device N.
    // Note: Kokkos requires SYCL queues to be "in_order"
    sycl::queue queue{gpu_devices[N], sycl::property::queue::in_order()};

    // Create execution space
    Kokkos::SYCL exec_space(queue);

    // Use execution space
    /* ... */

Notes
-----

- For ``parallel_reduce(..., const ReducerArgument&... reducer)``, it is important to pass rank-0 views for the ``reducer`` arguments

>   instead of scalar types. Scalar reductions imply a fence on all execution spaces.

Reviewer: I don't think we promise a global fence but only that the results is available after the call. In any case, this doesn't seem to be specific for multi-GPU setups so I would just remove.

      /* ... */
    }

    // Destroying stream after use
    hipSetDevice(N);
    hipStreamDestroy(stream);

SYCL
~~~~

For the SYCL backend, the user creates a ``sycl::queue`` object and passes it to the ``Kokkos::SYCL`` constructor.

.. code-block:: cpp

    // Get list of devices available
    std::vector<sycl::device> gpu_devices =
      sycl::device::get_devices(sycl::info::device_type::gpu);

    // Choose some 0 <= N < gpu_devices.size()
    int N = ...;

    // Create a queue on device N.
    // Note: Kokkos requires SYCL queues to be "in_order"
    sycl::queue queue{gpu_devices[N], sycl::property::queue::in_order()};

    // Create execution space
    Kokkos::SYCL exec_space(queue);

    // Use execution space
    /* ... */

Using Kokkos Methods
--------------------

Once an execution space has been created on the chosen device, the execution space must be passed to all Kokkos methods
intended to be used on the chosen device. If no execution space is passed, Kokkos will use `DefaultExecutionSpace`.

Allocating Managed Views
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To allocate a managed view on device, pass the execution space to ``Kokkos::view_alloc()``.

Example:

.. code-block:: cpp

>     Kokkos::View<int*> V(Kokkos::view_alloc("V", exec_space), 10);

Reviewer: I don't agree with removing the `ExecutionSpace` here.
```suggestion
    ExecutionSpace exec_space(...);
    Kokkos::View<int*, typename ExecutionSpace::memory_space> V(Kokkos::view_alloc("V", exec_space), 10);
```

Reviewer 2: can you explain why?

Reviewer: It matters what the type of the execution space is. It has to match with the memory space. I'm fine with using the defualt one here for it to read.
```suggestion
    Kokkos::DefaultExecutionSpace exec_space(...);
    Kokkos::View<int*> V(Kokkos::view_alloc("V", exec_space), 10);
```
but still prefer using a generic one.

Reviewer 2: I agree, that spelling the executionspace out in the example is a good idea. But don't we want to imply that these Views should be created with the exec space that is associated to a stream? This exec space was called `exec_space` in the snippets above.
Does this make sense?

Reviewer: I'm not arguing about the spelling of `exec_space` and we can be more explicit by adding a comment
```suggestion
    ExecutionSpace exec_space(...); // constructed as above
    Kokkos::View<int*, typename ExecutionSpace::memory_space> V(Kokkos::view_alloc("V", exec_space), 10);
```

Author: Updated by querying the type from execution space. I agree with Jakob, I was assuming the reader would follow `exec_space` through the doc.

.. role:: cppkokkos(code)
    :language: cppkokkos

Multi-GPU Support
=================

> Kokkos has support for launching kernels on multiple GPU devices within a single node from host on a single MPI rank for the CUDA, HIP, and SYCL backends.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kokkos has support for launching kernels on multiple GPU devices from a single host process e.g. a single MPI rank. This feature currently exists for the CUDA, HIP, and SYCL backends.
```

Using this feature requires knowledge of backend specific API calls for creating non-default execution space instances. Once the execution space has been
created, it can be used to create execution policies, allocate views, etc. all on the device chosen by the user.

Constructing Execution Spaces
-----------------------------

CUDA
~~~~

For CUDA backend, the user creates a ``cudaStream_t`` object and passes it to the ``Kokkos::Cuda`` constructor.

> .. note:: The user is expected to manage the lifetime of the stream. Only after the execution space is destroyed
>           can the user safely destroy the stream.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: The user is expected to manage the lifetime of the stream. The related execution space needs to be destroyed before destroying the stream.
```

Reviewer 2: maybe we should just move the note into the general part since we repeat it otherwise, right?

.. code-block:: cpp

    // Query number of devices available
    int n_devices;
    cudaGetDeviceCount(&n_devices);

    // Choose some 0 <= N < n_devices
    int N = ...;

    // Create stream on device N
    cudaStream_t stream;
    cudaSetDevice(N);
    cudaStreamCreate(&stream);

    // Scope execution space to ensure stream
    // is destroyed *after* execution space
    {
      // Create execution space
      Kokkos::Cuda exec_space(stream);

      // Use execution space
      /* ... */

>     }

Reviewer 2: When do we initialize? Since objects are destroyed in the reverse order of creation, we would not need a scope to enforce that, right?

Author: We have to destroy the stream below before the execution space would go out of scope, assuming they are in the same function.

Do you mean initialize kokkos? We could do that any time before creating the execution space.

This is how the tutorial looks 
```cpp

cudaStreamCreate(&stream);

Kokkos::initialize(...);
{
  Kokkos::Cuda exec_space(stream);

  ...
}
Kokkos::finalize();

cudaStreamDestroy(stream);
```
I could be misunderstanding the question.

Author: It's not because of `stream` being deleted after the execution space, it's that we're required to manually destroy the stream before it's deleted.

But maybe then it wouldn't matter if we call `cudaStreamDestroy(stream)` even while the execution space existed? It would be awkward though if we had an execution space instance floating around with an invalid stream.

Reviewer 2: oh, ok. "Lifetime" is the word that triggered me then. For me "Lifetime" in c++ is the time from creation until destruction (destructor call) of the class instance. IIUC you mean the lifetime of the execution space needs to end before we destroy (aka invalidate) the stream before the lifetime of the stream can end. Is that right?

Author: Yeah, that's right!

Reviewer 2: ok, in that case we definitely need the scope. Maybe we can make it more expressive, e.g.:

.. note:: The user needs to manually manage the lifetime of Kokkos objects that use the stream. The lifetime of all Kokkos objects including the execution space that are related to a stream needs to end before the stream is invalidated via `cudaStreamDestroy`. This can be done via adding a scope as done in the example below.

Author: Updated the note, let me know what you think.

Reviewer 2: I like it

    // Destroying stream after use
    cudaSetDevice(N);
    cudaStreamDestroy(stream);

HIP
~~~

For the HIP backend, like with CUDA, the user creates a ``hipStream_t`` object and passes it to the ``Kokkos::HIP`` constructor.

> .. note:: The user is expected to manage the lifetime of the stream. Only after the execution space is destroyed
>           can the user safely destroy the stream.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: The user is expected to manage the lifetime of the stream. The related execution space needs to be destroyed before destroying the stream.
```

> .. note:: The lifetime of all Kokkos objects related to the stream (e.g., the execution space) needs to end before the stream itself is invalidated
>           via ``cudaStreamDestroy``. This can be done by adding a scope around such objects, as is done below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: The lifetime of all Kokkos objects related to the stream (e.g., the execution space) needs to end before the stream itself is invalidated
          via ``hipStreamDestroy``. This can be done by adding a scope around such objects, as is done below.
```
I guess a copy-pasta error

.. warning:: Multi-GPU only supported for ROCm 5.6 and later. Because of the lack of HIP API functions for querying a
             stream's device before ROCm 5.6, constructing a ``Kokkos::HIP`` instance on a non-default device isn't

>              supported, and problems will likely arise downstream.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
             supported.
```
I would not want to get into the details

.. code-block:: cpp

    // Query number of devices available
    int n_devices;
    hipGetDeviceCount(&n_devices);

    // Choose some 0 <= N < n_devices
    int N = ...;

    // Create stream on device N
    hipStream_t stream;
    hipSetDevice(N);
    hipStreamCreate(&stream);

    // Scope execution space to ensure stream

>     // is destroyed *after* execution space

Reviewer 2: same question as above

    {
      // Create execution space
      Kokkos::HIP exec_space(stream);

      // Use execution space
      /* ... */
    }

    // Destroying stream after use
    hipSetDevice(N);
    hipStreamDestroy(stream);

SYCL
~~~~

For the SYCL backend, the user creates a ``sycl::queue`` object and passes it to the ``Kokkos::SYCL`` constructor.

> 

Reviewer 2: We should also add the note here ... or move it to a different place for all of them.

Author: I thought `sycl::queue` did not need to be managed manually? I'm a bit out of my depth here though, maybe @masterleinad can back me up or refute..

Reviewer: Yes, `sycl::queue` behaves like a `std::shared_ptr`.

.. code-block:: cpp

    // Get list of devices available
    std::vector<sycl::device> gpu_devices =
      sycl::device::get_devices(sycl::info::device_type::gpu);

    // Choose some 0 <= N < gpu_devices.size()
    int N = ...;

    // Create a queue on device N.
    // Note: Kokkos requires SYCL queues to be "in_order"
    sycl::queue queue{gpu_devices[N], sycl::property::queue::in_order()};

    // Create execution space
    Kokkos::SYCL exec_space(queue);

    // Use execution space
    /* ... */

Using Kokkos Methods
--------------------

Once an execution space has been created on the chosen device, the execution space must be passed to all Kokkos methods

> intended to be used on device. In the absence of an execution space, Kokkos will use the execution space on the default
> device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
intended to be used on the chosen device. If no execution space is passed, Kokkos will use `DefaultExecutionSpace`.
```

> intended to be used on the chosen device. If no execution space is passed, Kokkos will use `DefaultExecutionSpace`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
intended to be used on the chosen device. If no execution space is passed, Kokkos will use the default execution space instance associated with the device Kokkos was initialized with.
```

Allocating Managed Views
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To allocate a managed view on device, pass the execution space to ``Kokkos::view_alloc()``.

Example:

.. code-block:: cpp

>     using ExecutionSpace = decltype(exec_space);
>     Kokkos::View<int*, ExecutionSpace> V(Kokkos::view_alloc("V", exec_space), 10);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    auto V(Kokkos::view_alloc("V", exec_space), 10);
```

Reviewer 2: yeah, you are right. But this should work:
https://godbolt.org/z/MhY5n3Pbq

Reviewer: I'd rather be explicit about the template arguments (and I like passing memory spaces as template arguments to `Kokkos::View` instead of execution spaces but I don't think that's crucial here).

Launching Kernels
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To launch a kernel on device, pass the execution space to the policy constructor.

Example:

.. code-block:: cpp

>     Kokkos::parallel_for("inc_V", Kokkos::RangePolicy<ExecutionSpace>(exec_space, 0, 10),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Kokkos::parallel_for("inc_V", Kokkos::RangePolicy(exec_space, 0, 10),
```
do we not have CTAD for this?

      KOKKOS_LAMBDA (const int i) {
        V(i) += i;
    });

Notes
-----

> - A `tutorial <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/tree/main/Exercises/multi_gpu_cuda>`_ for using multi-gpu on CUDA is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A `tutorial <https://github.com/kokkos/kokkos-tutorials/tree/main/Exercises/multi_gpu_cuda>`_ for using multi-GPU on CUDA is available.
```
